Ben Pfaff: I got a little distracted with,
Ben Pfaff: With making… with heating up dinner, so…
Thorin (Joe): Oh, no worries.
Ben Pfaff: My alarm went off, and I was like, oh, I haven't even turned my computer back on.
Ben Pfaff: My background here is a little more bare than usual, because a lot of stuff is packed up already to move.
Thorin (Joe): I mean, when are you guys moving? How soon does it close?
Ben Pfaff: Well, closing is a week from tomorrow, and we'll probably move soon after that.
Thorin (Joe): That's a really fast close. Holy moly.
Thorin (Joe): No, like, ours was, like, 17 days, which was really fast, it just closed today.
Thorin (Joe): Oh.
Ben Pfaff: Well, ours was… We'll be 14, I guess?
Thorin (Joe): Okay. Wow.
Thorin (Joe): It moves fast.
Thorin (Joe): Now, are you gonna move right away? Are you gonna just get in there as soon as you can?
Ben Pfaff: We're gonna move as… as quickly as we can. We have a, we have other things, other things to do, so that's the main, .
Thorin (Joe): I mean, yeah, no, moving's an enormous pain in the ass, so…
Ben Pfaff: What? You're killing me with that answer.
Kostadis Roussos: Hello, hello.
Thorin (Joe): I'm sorry, I will stop poking sensitive subjects, I apologize.
Ben Pfaff: supposed to be, we drop everything, and… No, no, it's all internet, and he still has to be able to work. That's really the biggest concern.
Thorin (Joe): Otherwise.
Ben Pfaff: I would move on Wednesday.
Thorin (Joe): So you'd be sitting up with the air mattress and the pizza boxes and call it good, huh?
Ben Pfaff: Yes. Well, we don't know yet, what the, internet situation is there yet.
Thorin (Joe): I mean, I assume there's internet.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, what we've been told is that the owner… the sellers have Xfinity, and they've been happy with it.
Ben Pfaff: But, you know, that'll take at least a few days to install or to activate. So the immediate question is, is there good enough cell service to just leach off of that for a few days? And we'll find that out tomorrow. We're gonna go visit.
Thorin (Joe): That's exciting.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: Can you turn them up?
Kostadis Roussos: Why… why do you have… you look like you were sunburnt.
Ben Pfaff: Me?
Kostadis Roussos: That's… no.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, I'm al- I'm always pretty red.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: The particular, the particular lighting is particularly… Shut up.
Ben Pfaff: It's probably because my background is almost completely white now.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, that would be it.
Ben Pfaff: I wasn't miss out on board yesterday.
Kostadis Roussos: Back to single.
Ben Pfaff: Bad.
Kostadis Roussos: Single decor.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, well…
Kostadis Roussos: I had a number of friends of mine who went through that transition.
Thorin (Joe): They're right there, Kostadis. I don't know if you can see in the background.
Gabe: Jamie…
Kostadis Roussos: and talk… I wasn't talking about Gabe, I was actually not talking about Gabe.
Gabe: No.
Gabe: Nevermind.
Thorin (Joe): Nevermind.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, I know she can hear me. We've talked about this in the past.
Ben Pfaff: This is my favorite show on Monday night!
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, we've had this conversation.
Thorin (Joe): All the dorks dorking!
Ben Pfaff: Yep. She likes the nerd talk.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Daz: Hey, everybody.
Kostadis Roussos: Hello, hello!
Thorin (Joe): Whoa!
Gabe: Quick.
Kostadis Roussos: I don't know what I'm… Alright.
Gabe: There's a different view of Mike than me.
Daz: is not working. Hold on.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, it is, or we can hear you.
Daz: Oh, I should be better.
Daz: I got a brand new machine, so I forgot that I had to download Zoom, and don't have any of my stuff on here.
Daz: Like, the background to hide the fact that I tore my office apart to install my new machine.
Kostadis Roussos: I have to say something. I've recently figured out… I got a DGX Spark.
Ben Pfaff: What is it?
Kostadis Roussos: It's a small little computer that, you can sort of see over here, maybe.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, it's a box with cables going into it, yes.
Kostadis Roussos: It is a NVIDIA supercomputer kind of thingy. It has,
Kostadis Roussos: It has a Blackwell 10.
Kostadis Roussos: 128GB of memory. It is hopelessly bad in terms of its decode speed, but it is fast enough that you can spend a lot of time futzing around with different models
Kostadis Roussos: And if you… and learn a lot about the different capabilities of the different models.
Kostadis Roussos: And you can unconvinc yourself of great many… and it's a great thinkering thing, because every day there's yet another set of models and papers that say, this time we will make use of your memory and bandwidth better.
Kostadis Roussos: But the thing that I was most surprised with is the latest Google model.
Kostadis Roussos: the Gamma 4 20… anyway, some Gamma 4 variant, with Cursor is actually a really good programmer.
Kostadis Roussos: Like, you know.
Ben Pfaff: Maybe we should bring back the TV show America's Next Top Model?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh yeah, dude, totally. I mean, there's a whole bunch of people on LinkedIn who have nothing to do with AI, but have discovered that if they talk about AI and cursor, people will click on their things, and so they give you this whole blather about AI and end with, we're a language translation company.
Thorin (Joe): So I searched for the DGX Spark, and then Google's like, oh, we can buy it at B&H, Newegg, and then the next one is Target.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, no, it's.
Thorin (Joe): Because everybody wants to be Amazon now, selling all sorts of third-party everybody's, right? But it's hilarious.
Ben Pfaff: Walmart's trying to.
Thorin (Joe): now.
Daz: That's crazy.
Kostadis Roussos: All right. All right. Okay.
Thorin (Joe): But is it… is it fast enough to do anything real with? Because…
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, no, no, that's what I was trying to say, is like, I used it for coding.
Thorin (Joe): But you said it had shitty decode speed.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, no, it has shitty decode speed, which means you now have to go figure out which model to use.
Kostadis Roussos: It is… you can actually get it to be performant. They, like, you…
Thorin (Joe): Oh.
Thorin (Joe): Okay, so you're saying it's big enough that it can actually do something useful, so now you have to actually figure out.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, but it's not powerful enough so that you could just take the biggest bottle, run it, and be done with it.
Thorin (Joe): Gotcha.
Kostadis Roussos: And so as a result, you learn all about all the different tricks and techniques people pull on these models.
Kostadis Roussos: For example, Google's model Deals with the decode speed by doing a bunch of tricks on how they activate
Kostadis Roussos: their networks, so that they can get faster token speed, and then there are other.
Thorin (Joe): You know, networks, la la la, you know.
Kostadis Roussos: walk.
Thorin (Joe): More precision, blah blah blah, quantity, entanglement, blah, blah, blah.
Kostadis Roussos: They basically use less elements of the matrix than other models. How about we phrase it that way? And then other models, there's other techniques where you can have a big model fronted by a small model.
Kostadis Roussos: Essentially exploiting the fact that the small model can generate a token, and the big model can say, yep, that's the right token pretty fast.
Thorin (Joe): Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? Much faster than it can generating the token.
Kostadis Roussos: And so you can get a lot of speed up there. So there's a lot of different tricks you can pull. The thing that was very surprising to me was that the biggest trick to pull was to use cursor.
Thorin (Joe): Over what?
Kostadis Roussos: Over, like, anything else. Cursor's performance was astonishing.
Thorin (Joe): Is cursor just much more miserly with, like, token requests and thinking.
Kostadis Roussos: I have no… I think they've just spent most of their times trying to figure out how to make it work across a wide variety of models, whereas everybody else is trying to make it work across one frontier… their frontier model, and so as a result, they have a lot more intelligence in how they use the models.
Thorin (Joe): Gotcha.
Kostadis Roussos: In fact, I was just… somebody shared me some data, they are far more efficient… token efficient than all the alternatives.
Kostadis Roussos: So, if you're looking to save money on tokens, cursor is the answer.
Ben Pfaff: Well, my coworkers finally browbeat me into trying Claw today, so…
Kostadis Roussos: You can use cursor with Claude.
Ben Pfaff: Let me do one thing at a time, huh?
Ben Pfaff: I'm a dinosaur trying not to get eaten by the mammals.
Thorin (Joe): I've been going down this, Ben, and, like.
Thorin (Joe): just start slow, and you'll… you'll figure out, like… you just start going through, like, I'm like, what the fuck is, like… apparently you can have rules now, there's skills, and there's rules, and there's agents, and there's this, and there's, like.
Ben Pfaff: I got skills, man.
Thorin (Joe): Memories, and then there's Claude.md, and what's the difference between a memory and the shit that you put in Claude? I don't know, just throw it somewhere, maybe it'll see it and read it.
Ben Pfaff: Well, it hasn't, hasn't stolen all my money yet, so that's good.
Thorin (Joe): And all these things, just put them in a blender and, like, throw it at the model and hope for the best. I'm pretty sure that's what's happening.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm gonna keep my mouth shut.
Thorin (Joe): Am I wrong, Kostadis?
Kostadis Roussos: Only ever so slightly.
Kostadis Roussos: Turns out, what I learned is if you start… if you use… if you're using the big frontier models, you're absolutely right. If you try to use the less than the big frontier models, it turns out there's a lot of trickery you pull. Which, by the way.
Thorin (Joe): I imagine so, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Which, by the way, then has the curious side effect of making the bigger models work better.
Kostadis Roussos: So you're actually, if you're trying to get the most effective use of the big models, you're better off tuning your programs on small models, and then using the big models.
Ben Pfaff: So, how's, how's Curse for it slaying dragons? Can, can we.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, Cursor's great at slaying dragons, it helps me a lot with my prep.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, you know, alright, let me go, let me, let me go, let me go do this, roll 20…
Thorin (Joe): You know, at some point, we're gonna add, like, an… you know, we'll, like, one of the NPCs will have an AI model behind him, just, like, role-playing with us, with, like, a Zoom screen and everything.
Thorin (Joe): And we're gonna be pissed off because they're taking it too damn seriously.
Kostadis Roussos: It's gonna be like, I'm sorry, Gabe, you can't do that. That rule… the rule does not say that.
Gabe: Well, I do tend these days to sanity check with Claude, so…
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, God, you do! I knew you!
Gabe: It's actually really useful.
Thorin (Joe): You know what I'm saying, for figuring out how to break D&D.
Kostadis Roussos: We don't know, for figuring… yeah, it's pretty useful. Alright, okay, so the next person in our, our trilogy is,
Kostadis Roussos: Stroud. Sorry, gergam.
Ben Pfaff: Pergam, that's right.
Ben Pfaff: I almost answered to Stroud there.
Kostadis Roussos: I don't know, Grygum.
Kostadis Roussos: What am I looking for?
Kostadis Roussos: Or… Right.
Gabe: You know, Kostadis, now that Joe said that, I'm expecting you to do it. Like, you could get Glabbagool as an agent on here, plugged into your…
Gabe: your Spark running locally, right?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, dude.
Thorin (Joe): He talks very slowly, which really works well with his whole thing.
Kostadis Roussos: I've been working on that.
Thorin (Joe): Have you really?
Kostadis Roussos: You can actually create agents that are NPCs, it's kind of the next…
Gabe: Yeah, no, I know, right?
Kostadis Roussos: I'm waiting.
Gabe: for you to do it.
Kostadis Roussos: When I was trying to… when I was trying to create some content, I needed the big bad NPC to give me his opinion, so I did it that way.
Kostadis Roussos: If you must know. What was it? There we go.
Thorin (Joe): So, who paid for this, GGX Spark, was that…
Kostadis Roussos: Employers… Weird.
Thorin (Joe): Employer?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah.
Thorin (Joe): Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Although I would have bought it myself, now that I've found how useful it is.
Ben Pfaff: I still remember how VMware bought me a massage table, that was nice.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Daz: Hey guys, I'll be back in just one second. I apologize.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, let me get one more thing?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, Grygum, take… is taken by Brother Vareth.
Kostadis Roussos: to the West Inner Ward, a Theology Librarian Library. It's a tile floor with one deity symbol per tile, green rectangular roofs.
Ben Pfaff: Risky. You have to choose which, which deity you want to step on.
Kostadis Roussos: Sure. Barrett's office is in one of the… is in one of the side rooms.
Ben Pfaff: I try to watch where he steps, and step in the same place.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. As you're walking, an ancient turtle librarian shuffles past at approximately 1 mile per hour.
Kostadis Roussos: And offers you a religious Tracked, but it's kind of like this.
Kostadis Roussos: You can tell that Vareth is looking irritated and annoyed, but being respectful.
Ben Pfaff: Well, I, I try to accept it, I don't know if I can move slow enough.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? Oh, no, no, you, he, it announces… No, no! Just wait.
Kostadis Roussos: no rush, there's no rush, this takes about 5 minutes. After about… after 5.
Ben Pfaff: I'm going to just snatch it.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I know. Like, he's… he goes, and he gives you a religious, track that he thinks… it turns out it's one of his research papers.
Ben Pfaff: Is it on the, like, the merits of doing things slowly, or…
Kostadis Roussos: No, it's a synchristic analysis of different religions across the Sword Coast.
Kostadis Roussos: It's one of those intellectual things that you really don't understand.
Ben Pfaff: Academics.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, it's a very academic thing.
Kostadis Roussos: That is very, sort of, like, theoretical, and very confusing, and lacking in any structural coherence.
Ben Pfaff: I tuck it into my satchel and, tell him I will… I will read it in due time.
Kostadis Roussos: All right okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okey-dokey. So… Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so… Alright, so he, he steps there, and he, he, he, he says, he says,
Kostadis Roussos: He says, drag him!
Kostadis Roussos: You… you are an excellent person for us to have this conversation with, because we are now confronted with the problem of our age.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, the, the question of our age, of course.
Kostadis Roussos: All right, let me see if I have it here… She does.
Kostadis Roussos: Brother Grygum, I will take you to the several schools, the material I have collected over the last several years on the debate of the question of our age.
Ben Pfaff: Aye.
Kostadis Roussos: But before you read the polemics, I must tell you what they are all about.
Kostadis Roussos: You can sense that he's prepared this speech for some time.
Ben Pfaff: Good, I love hearing summaries.
Kostadis Roussos: Right. They are not about a chess game. They are not about a dwarf, however remarkable. They are not even primarily about the late war. They are about the question of the age. I do not say this lightly. I have been keeping this corner of the library for 41 years, and I know what a fashion looks like.
Kostadis Roussos: This is not a fashion. The libraries are arguing. The taverns are arguing. The chapter houses are arguing. The courts of two cities have asked for written opinions.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, what drama in our time?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, the Stroud Lake, Stroud Eye pamphlets have crossed the Sea of Swords.
Kostadis Roussos: We have had three duels at Candlekeep over which polemic shelf gets the larger window. Three in a library where nobody has dueled in 200 years. Sister Yvetne threatens to confiscate everyone's book plates. She has not yet, but I expect it.
Kostadis Roussos: What is being asked beneath the chest and the dragons and the partisan colors is this. What kind of universe do we live in?
Kostadis Roussos: The Stroud School answers, a universe in which mortal choice is sovereign. The gods exist, the dragons exists, Providence may or may not exist, but the choosing belongs to the chooser, and is not borrowed, and is not alone from any one throne above or below.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, the choice belongs to the chooser. This is a, this is the principle that I can get behind.
Kostadis Roussos: By this reading, Tiamat was denied her power because a dwarf chose, and the chain of choices that followed was a chain of free acts. Strike out anyone, and the chain falls.
Kostadis Roussos: But you're a cleric of Bahamut. Perhaps you wish to hear the Bahamutian theory.
Ben Pfaff: I am inclined toward the, toward the Stroudite, but,
Ben Pfaff: I, I will listen, I will listen politely.
Kostadis Roussos: The Bahamutian School answers, a universe in which divine providence prevails. Bahamut moved his pieces beforehand. The dragons obeyed because they were agents of a just god. The mortals, Stroud included, served as instruments of providence. By this reading, choice was real, but not sovereign. Stroud chose what he was fitted to choose.
Kostadis Roussos: The chain was an arranged chain.
Kostadis Roussos: Providence prevails.
Ben Pfaff: I cannot put my finger on it, but I feel, I feel there must be a fallacy.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, there's a third school of thought that perhaps your friend,
Kostadis Roussos: What was the name of the Dragonborn?
Kostadis Roussos: Zalthir.
Kostadis Roussos: Zalthir? Yeah, he's asking you about your friend, like, he can't remember your friend's name. I couldn't remember your name, so I was going in my NPC.
Kostadis Roussos: Can remember some. Because the Dragon School answers, most quietly, a universe in which ancient agency rules, and mortals operate in the frames the Dragon Set. Protenthor chose to honor Stroud's move because Protanther is honorable, not because Bahamut compelled him.
Kostadis Roussos: The metallic dragons followed Protanther because they trust their elders, not because the gods commanded them. The choosing is real, but the scope of the choosing is what the dragons permit.
Kostadis Roussos: Three answers, three universes. They cannot be all right at the same time, and the question, Brother Grygum, matters in a way I've never seen a question rather. Because if the Stroud School is right, the gods are constrained, and the central truth of the cosmos is the irreducible mortal choice.
Kostadis Roussos: That no power above or below can possess. The good gods cannot manufacture our mercy. The evil gods cannot manufacture our cruelty. There is no procedure that produces the human outcome reliably, because the human is not a stone or a star or a level, or a lever, and refuses when every calculation says they should obey.
Ben Pfaff: But… but what if there's a fourth?
Ben Pfaff: What if there are certain fixed points around which our actions must revolve? And the closer we come to one of those fixed points, the more constrained we are, but between them, perhaps we have a great deal of freedom of action.
Kostadis Roussos: He has that moment of utter panic.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, a fourth school of thought?
Ben Pfaff: Hi! Have you considered the other possibilities?
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, and this is why I am so ecstatic to see you! Who cares about the Bahamutians, who think that it's all arranged by first principles, or the dragons, who think that they know how the world looks? He goes, I don't care.
Ben Pfaff: That would be much better!
Kostadis Roussos: You have excited me in ways that I could not imagine.
Ben Pfaff: I feel attracted.
Kostadis Roussos: More than one track. Brother Grygum, I will insist that you not leave Candlekeep for several weeks. Having said that, we will have to conduct the research to ensure that we have done a complete survey of all the material before we can…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I'm… oh, I'm… this is so exciting!
Ben Pfaff: Yes, very satisfying.
Kostadis Roussos: A fourth principle! Perhaps a compromise! This was not a triangle that everyone argued, but a square!
Ben Pfaff: Yes, so…
Kostadis Roussos: Quadrangles.
Kostadis Roussos: A quadrangle, or perhaps it was the center of the circle! That the three triangles, the three points, described a circle, and this was its center.
Ben Pfaff: Hmm…
Kostadis Roussos: He pauses and goes, I am afraid I do not know what the answer is.
Kostadis Roussos: But apparently, the world has been arranging it around it while we argue. I tell you, Stroud, we have a god who wished to control the outcome of mortal lives, would not need to compel a single hand. She would only shape the rules of the evidence. The form of polemic, the architecture of a chapter house, the quiet.
Ben Pfaff: This falls in very, very conveniently with my theory.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Or that… and that Stroud, on the other hand, says, the universe can be silent and indifferent, or it can be silent and conspiratorial.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, the universe can be silent and indifferent outside of the fixed framework, and then as we approach it, yes, it gets silent and it gets conspiratorial to compel us toward the invariance.
Kostadis Roussos: So what you would say is that Stroud… someone had to… perhaps if I was to theorize this just for a moment, Brother Grygum, you are saying that if someone were to arrive at a particular point, their choices were constrained at that point in time.
Ben Pfaff: Aye.
Kostadis Roussos: But who would arrive there was unconstrained.
Ben Pfaff: Aye! It could have been Stroud, our great philosopher. It could have been, say, another party of adventurers.
Kostadis Roussos: Hmm.
Ben Pfaff: But someone would have.
Kostadis Roussos: This is a compromise of the Bahamutian school.
Ben Pfaff: Tis a grand compromise, perhaps.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, it is. I… he's…
Kostadis Roussos: Well, this is very exciting. But, well, this is so exciting. I was planning to share with you a whole bunch of materials, but now I want to go do some research, so he's going to hand you some papers for you to read.
Ben Pfaff: Yes. I accept them. I hope there aren't too many.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay, I'll just cut and paste them.
Ben Pfaff: Vellum is expensive. How much can they afford?
Thorin (Joe): I mean, you gave them a book, they gave you papers back, seems like a fair trade. That's true.
Kostadis Roussos: Do you want to share him the, the pamphlet you found? He goes, First, I was going to walk you by the Stroudite school of thought, but we've already established that you are not a Stroudite. Instead, you are a weak Stroudite, rather than a strong Stroudite.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, I did not know all the jargon.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, the strong Stroudite says that there are no fixed points, but the weak Stroudite suggests that there is. So you are a weak Stroudite, and a strong Bahamutian around fixed points, and a weak Bahamutian outside of fixed points.
Ben Pfaff: Excellent.
Kostadis Roussos: So this is… we will call it the strong-weak hypothesis.
Kostadis Roussos: Right. Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: That was not expected. Alright, alright. He goes, well, I'll give you this material, it's what the Stroudites think, I probably… you'll probably think that this is all nonsense.
Ben Pfaff: I'll, I'll give you a marked-up version, when I'm, when I'm done.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay, alright, so that was, that was, that was cool. Alright, I will.
Ben Pfaff: I feel like I handled that competently.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, no, you did, you very well did. You've now created a fourth school of thought.
Kostadis Roussos: He's, like, very excited, because now he's gonna, like, his career's gonna take off.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, the, the Grygum, school of thought.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, you know, the Grygum school of thought, like, you've just introduced a new philosophical underpinning to, to the North. All right.
Kostadis Roussos: So… Oh, hold on, let me just make sure I didn't accidentally give you too much.
Kostadis Roussos: accidentally give you too much.
Thorin (Joe): Discord does not break lines when you paste that, so I'm like…
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know.
Ben Pfaff: this in Discord?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, hold on, hold on, hold on.
Thorin (Joe): I deleted it, so now I don't know what's going on.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, hold on, hold on. I'm gonna do it the old-fashioned way, which is put it in a Google Drive document.
Kostadis Roussos: By the way, Google Docs, like, they can do everything, but they don't know how to read Markdown documents.
Thorin (Joe): It absolutely does. You can, you can,
Thorin (Joe): You can paste Markdown into Google Docs if you, change a setting, and then you can do Paste as Markdown.
Ben Pfaff: Oh.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh.
Thorin (Joe): Let me find that. Oh, give me a second here.
Ben Pfaff: Now, if they just figure out how to do that in Jira.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Ben Pfaff: Actually, I haven't used Jira in yours, and I'm very pleased with them.
Thorin (Joe): Because I've been using this all the time, I'll have Claude generate markdown, I'll just pass, post it in, and it actually works really well.
Kostadis Roussos: There you go.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: This is notes from the Stroudite School.
Kostadis Roussos: So, Vareth shows you the strata at school.
Kostadis Roussos: The notes he's collected, and… and his thoughts on it… on it.
Kostadis Roussos: stuff for you to read and be amused by. All right.
Kostadis Roussos: I think it's kind of funky that you've sort of created a, the weak and strong theory of,
Kostadis Roussos: Right, you know, the straddites are all about the weak theory, the strong straddite theory, the strong Bahamut theory, everybody's tried to come up with these theories, you've come up with yet another compromise.
Ben Pfaff: Look, I'm always the mediator in a meeting, you know, that's where you'll find me.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, it's the IETF background.
Kostadis Roussos: Have I told you about the IETF and VPN?
Kostadis Roussos: This really… this really impressed me. The IETF had a problem where the Juniper guys and the Cisco guys could not agree on IETF standard.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? And it was important that they agreed, because they couldn't sell to the telcos without an IETF standard.
Kostadis Roussos: And so they came up with a compromise. If Cisco Else, if Juniper.
Ben Pfaff: I'm surprised they didn't come back.
Thorin (Joe): up with a third one that didn't advantage either of them, because this is the game that you play with the IETF, is you build something.
Kostadis Roussos: No, they were very pretty.
Thorin (Joe): You get a standard, because then you get a jump on everybody else.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, they were both.
Thorin (Joe): Even bonus if it's, like, encumbered by patents.
Kostadis Roussos: They were both very happy. The Juniper guys were very pleased with the outcome.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, that's, that's the oligopoly thing to do.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, duopoly in this case. Alright, da-da-da-da-da, drive.
Daz: Let's say it's… maybe the Triopoly now?
Daz: Do you count all the Broadcom silicon? But, yeah, anyway.
Daz: Joe… You said tools, preference, Enable Markdown, is that actually in a doc?
Thorin (Joe): Yeah, in a dock.
Thorin (Joe): Yeah.
Thorin (Joe): And then you can do copy as Markdown and paste as Markdown.
Thorin (Joe): Thank you.
Daz: Here, I'm gonna…
Thorin (Joe): I'm gonna confess my shame to my wife. I was leaning back and eating the crust, and I got crumbs all down here, but I have my little mini vacuum.
Daz: That's.
Thorin (Joe): That's my shame.
Ben Pfaff: The new house supposedly has a central vacuum. We'll see how that works.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: And so, after… the clock chimes, and you discover that it's time for dinner.
Kostadis Roussos: And you are taken to the refractory.
Kostadis Roussos: And at the refactory.
Ben Pfaff: Refectory, I think.
Kostadis Roussos: Refractor, refractory, you're right, you're absolutely correct.
Kostadis Roussos: You are… you are at the refectory.
Kostadis Roussos: And… Let me see what happens…
Ben Pfaff: It's a weird word.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I know.
Ben Pfaff: I've never seen a restaurant named The Refectory.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So you're at the refectory dinner,
Kostadis Roussos: And you see all the 8 GREET leader… readers present.
Kostadis Roussos: Sitting at the high table.
Kostadis Roussos: You do roll a perception.
Gabe: Which of us are there?
Kostadis Roussos: What?
Gabe: Who's… who is present?
Kostadis Roussos: All of you are now, but basically what… yes, basically what's happened is you've done parts of your research, now they've decided they need to go do more preparation, time has elapsed, it's dinner time, you know, they've got other meetings to attend to, group, you know, discussions to do, other paperwork, other students to work with.
Kostadis Roussos: So, you know… Hello.
Ben Pfaff: why, but my… my D&D Beyond is not rolling properly, so let's do it, Manually, then?
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so… You're,
Kostadis Roussos: you're at the refactory dinner, and, you see all great readers present, right? They're all, you know, there's various folks around, the meals are being served.
Kostadis Roussos: What were some of the perceptions?
Gabe: Not good. 11… a critical fill for me. Gurgan got a 9. Daz hasn't rolled yet.
Kostadis Roussos: Des.
Daz: Oh, let me do that, sorry.
Kostadis Roussos: Insight, insight, rolled insight, sorry.
Daz: Boom.
Daz: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: I meant to roll insight. Oh, very well.
Daz: I… I did perception, but I can do it in, so I…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, go for Insight.
Daz: All of them?
Gabe: It just does.
Thorin (Joe): Should I re-roll, Insight?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I meant to say insight, I said perception when I meant to.
Daz: the insight.
Ben Pfaff: For… for insight…
Gabe: Way better.
Thorin (Joe): Yeah, clearly that was what made the difference.
Gabe: It's right there.
Thorin (Joe): At 20s on the inside. Shitty rolls on perception.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Daz: Oh, man…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Daz: Cool.
Kostadis Roussos: So, so, you see, you saw all the great readers. One of them is drunk, visibly.
Kostadis Roussos: And another one looks unwell.
Kostadis Roussos: And two of them appear to be in deep conversation at one corner. After a pleasant dinner of excellent, taste and cuisine, you're… you head out to your, sleeping chambers, which is in, a… which is…
Kostadis Roussos: Let me just make sure I got it right.
Kostadis Roussos: The House of Rust.
Kostadis Roussos: At the house of rest.
Kostadis Roussos: That's where guests stay.
Kostadis Roussos: You can see yourselves on the map, right?
Gabe: Mmm… no?
Kostadis Roussos: Here.
Gabe: Oh, way down there, number 2.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, right here.
Gabe: Correct.
Kostadis Roussos: See that? You see my arrow pointing to it?
Ben Pfaff: I see it now.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, you, you are, you're, you, you, you,
Kostadis Roussos: Go through this, let me just go through this and… Documents.
Kostadis Roussos: Ugh.
Kostadis Roussos: There we go.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. As you were going down, you noticed a… as you're… as you're heading back out to dinner, it's after dinner, you noticed a… a hooded avowed hurrying past with something tucked under their robe.
Kostadis Roussos: And then, as you sit down, you hear the recited prophecies float down from the high gallery.
Kostadis Roussos: At some point in time, you probably asked what the prophecies are, and it turns out there was a guy named Alaundo who
Kostadis Roussos: had prophecies that turned out remarkably accurately, and so the folks at Candlekeep keep reciting them.
Ben Pfaff: Have they… are there some that have not…
Kostadis Roussos: Oh yeah, those are the ones that are not… the ones that have not yet come true. So apparently, whenever a prophecy comes true, it gets removed, and the prophecies shrink over time. Nobody knows what happens when you run out of prophecies.
Ben Pfaff: Are there any that, you know, could no longer come true, or are they all vague enough that they still could?
Kostadis Roussos: Who knows?
Kostadis Roussos: That, that, that, as they say, is a question worthy of asking the avowed and the great readers themselves.
Ben Pfaff: Hmm.
Kostadis Roussos: And perhaps having a lot of patience.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: The recited prophecies of Alaundo float down from a high gallery.
Kostadis Roussos: Once during the day, they catch, one that says, on the longest night of winter's deepest cold, the keeper falls, the heart is sold.
Kostadis Roussos: I'll just,
Kostadis Roussos: And you go back to sleep, you take a nap, Glabbagool's super excited, you know, he feels like he's on the cusp of something.
Kostadis Roussos: You wake up in the morning, and somebody's banging at the door.
Ben Pfaff: Banging at the door.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Daz: remote.
Kostadis Roussos: And so you're kind of bleary-eyed wake up, and you're hearing somebody shouting, The first reader sent me! The Keeper of Tomes is dead! She wants you! Now, through the emerald door, before the avowed awake!
Ben Pfaff: The Keeper of Tomes?
Kostadis Roussos: Tomes, tomes.
Kostadis Roussos: It's one of the chief readers.
Ben Pfaff: Oh.
Kostadis Roussos: It's, it's, one of the chief readers.
Thorin (Joe): Wait, totes? Like, as in, like, totes my goats?
Kostadis Roussos: I will cut it.
Daz: and paste, because apparently.
Kostadis Roussos: Apparently.
Daz: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Apparently, we're all getting to that age where our healing.
Gabe: As in books, like tomes, books.
Thorin (Joe): It's homes. Oh, it's homes.
Ben Pfaff: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: The first reader.
Kostadis Roussos: The, the tomes, alright.
Ben Pfaff: Keeper of Tomes is dead.
Thorin (Joe): Gotcha.
Ben Pfaff: Is she saying this to all of us?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, she's banging on the… he's banging on the door. You see it out of breath when you guys.
Ben Pfaff: Okay, well, I'm all for, solving another mystery, or keeping a tome, or whatever we need to do.
Kostadis Roussos: All right, well, you wanna… he's banging at the door, I presume.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, I opened the door.
Kostadis Roussos: And he says, Quick! He's a, he's a, he's,
Kostadis Roussos: a commoner, he's enthusiastic… no, yeah, commoner, enthusiastic, boyish,
Kostadis Roussos: He looks very, you know, excited.
Kostadis Roussos: And he says.
Kostadis Roussos: That you must head… we must head to the Emerald… we must head to meet the… with the bookworm. Something terrible has happened.
Ben Pfaff: Let's… let's go. Alright. I, I… I don't know.
Ben Pfaff: put on my clothes, or whatever it is, I have not…
Ben Pfaff: Thought about what to… orcs were to bed, so…
Kostadis Roussos: Right, yeah, so he, he, he all sort of follow him along. Glabbagool sort of looks and kind of says, jumps into your bag of holding, eyeballs out.
Ben Pfaff: I'm going to guess that we had a long rest.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, everybody had a long rest.
Kostadis Roussos: So, from the archway above the emerald door, Fembris leads you up a sleight of stale… stairs, feeling for each step carefully through the blanket of…
Kostadis Roussos: Fresh snow that is swaddled can't keep in white. Behold, the great library enthuses the young apple acolyte with a sweep of his arm as you stand in the shadow of the mighty exaltation. He proceeds to guide you around the northern side of the bastion, pointing out buildings of interest as you go.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, you, you see that curious blue stack of globes? That's the Astronomicon. Everything we know about the stars can be found there. And look, you see that glint of gold under the snow? That's the Whispering Dome, part of the Hall of Momentous Deeds. You can hear the words of heroes past and be inspired. What's that mean?
Ben Pfaff: like domes.
Kostadis Roussos: Yep, yes, yes. What's that building you say? Why, that's the Drakonoikos, made from the scales and bones of the ancient dragon…
Kostadis Roussos: He looks down, scratches his head, thinks to himself, I never get this right. Fire and Tednimar. Anything you need to know about fire and lightning, breathing lizards, you'll find in there.
Ben Pfaff: Boy, and those, those scales, they really gleam in the sunrise. That's amazing.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, yeah, and you can test your mettle in the Dragon Breath Situation Chamber.
Ben Pfaff: That sounds like a great game to play. Later.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, but I wouldn't advise it. One member of the app vowed, died when they tried it. Now you need from the permission from the keeper to use it.
Ben Pfaff: I've got another level or two on me.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah. You're led by Fembris around to the northern side of… oops.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? He said, nope, nope, I…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I accidentally hit back on my button.
Kostadis Roussos: Pardon?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: You're led by Fembris around to the northern side of exaltation, and one of the bastion's impressive doors is left ajar for the coming and going of the many avowed who reside here. A pupil-robed watcher guards the door of the entrance hall, but lets you pass without comment.
Kostadis Roussos: After traversing many high-ceiling halls, traipsing down several tapestry-covered corridors, and climbing many austere staircases.
Kostadis Roussos: Each decorated with busts and oil paintings of stern, long-dead sages, you finally arrive at the chapter house with aching legs.
Kostadis Roussos: You encounter a moved elf scribe standing guard outside who motions for you to halt.
Kostadis Roussos: Fembra says, they've been asked! Jeez, he's a little bit out of shape. I mean, you guys are… I mean, Daz is, of course, everybody else is, like, not experiencing any physical ailments. Your legs aren't tired, but his are. I mean, you guys have been going up and down.
Kostadis Roussos: In the underdark, what's a few stairs amongst friends, right?
Kostadis Roussos: So, the moon scribe is standing there, he tries to tell you to salt, but Fembris explains, they have been summoned by the, by the, by the first reader!
Kostadis Roussos: So whoever's in charge here is…
Ben Pfaff: Gergamum has this lurking suspicion that he's going to be asked to become the new Keeper of Tomes, and he's preparing to decline politely.
Kostadis Roussos: You all remember that the first reader is the person who runs the entire
Kostadis Roussos: Library, and you met them yesterday.
Kostadis Roussos: Bookwyrm.
Ben Pfaff: That's right. I remember this.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Ben Pfaff: And they're a dragon?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, Dragonborn.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, I appreciate dragons as a follower of Bahamut.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, the chapter house is Exaltation's executive meeting room and sits under the western gables of its green, slanted roof opposite Reader's Tower. A distinctive rose window allows lateral light to stream.
Kostadis Roussos: While a dodecoginal table has places for the keeper of tomes, the first reader, the eight great readers, the gate warden, and the lower keeper.
Kostadis Roussos: Lorekeeper, making a count… a council of 12.
Ben Pfaff: So, Chapter House is actually a pretty good name for this, because in a Benedictine monastery, I'm pretty sure that Chapter is basically, like, the morning meeting.
Kostadis Roussos: The council is in a state of uproar as you enter. You overhear several strong statements.
Kostadis Roussos: So, alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So, one of the,
Kostadis Roussos: One of a tall, handsome human male with smooth, dark skin and a braided beard shouts, We must have the vote and restore leadership to Candlekeep.
Kostadis Roussos: A dowdy female halfening with a pantsnez, glasses, and mousy hair streaked with gray goes. First, we must determine if Janussi named a successor…
Kostadis Roussos: Another one exclaims, First, we must find the murder! A slender female human with black, dark gray hair and heavy wrinkles around her dark eyes. Finally, there is a red-cheeked wizard with a receding mane of white hair.
Kostadis Roussos: He's looking at you all, and…
Kostadis Roussos: his colleagues with the shrewd grays.
Ben Pfaff: So the Keeper of Tomes is not just dead, but murdered. This is news.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. Where is the gate wordin with his report?
Kostadis Roussos: Then finally, a formidably sized bronze dragon-born academic, his hefty frame clothed in tailored bejeweled robes out. The gate warden needs to be dismissed with immediate effect! This happened on HIS watch!
Kostadis Roussos: Finally, Bookwyrm says, let's be calm ourselves… She's…
Kostadis Roussos: A green dragonborn, just to remind you, and she looks shaken and weary.
Kostadis Roussos: And finally, Daral… finally, a tall human shage with sour, thin-lipped face and greasy, slick-backed hair gray.
Kostadis Roussos: gray hair, goes, why isn't Sylvira Savikas here?
Kostadis Roussos: You remember that she was the one that was feeling sick yesterday.
Ben Pfaff: Well, probably because she's feeling sick, still.
Kostadis Roussos: Right. And then he looks at you, and who, in awareness, are these guys?
Ben Pfaff: Oh, merely, merely guests.
Ben Pfaff: I, am the head of the Grygumite School.
Ben Pfaff: Founder, in fact.
Kostadis Roussos: You, you, you, you opened with that.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, so apparently, now everybody's suddenly very interested, because apparently, you know, the murder of a colleague, chaos and mayhem, notwithstanding, when you throw, you know, an interesting idea to a bunch of academics, that becomes the topic of conversation.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, I've been, yeah, I've been to meetings.
Kostadis Roussos: There's, like, there's, like, oh, Grygumite, what is this Grygumite school? He, they, they, one of them looks at, at use,
Kostadis Roussos: Zalthir.
Kostadis Roussos: Brother Khell-Vire said that you possessed a unique skill.
Gabe: Yes…
Kostadis Roussos: I see you are not sharing.
Gabe: Do you have a request to go on?
Kostadis Roussos: No, I was hoping we would learn more about your unique skill.
Ben Pfaff: I thought we were here to learn about a death.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, and then at that point in time, Bookwyrm says, FOCUS, PEOPLE! Focus! Focus! Focus! Focus! Focus! They all sort of sit down around… around the table.
Kostadis Roussos: I believe I'm not alone in seeing the arrival of these individuals on this tragic dead winter day, as fateful in some respects.
Ben Pfaff: It could be one of those fixed points.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes, verith said that you had brought up an interesting new theory, and perhaps it is such a thing, but…
Ben Pfaff: The more you think about it, the more you see them every day.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, she's trying to make a point and trying to be politely… she tries to speak over you. Given that we must consider the strong possibility that the murder of our beloved colleague walks amongst us, I believe the best course of action is to delegate the responsibility of the murder investigation
Kostadis Roussos: And she points to the four of you.
Kostadis Roussos: To these seekers who the gods have sent us.
Kostadis Roussos: So, do you want to accept? Do you want to, like, reject? Do you want to, like…
Kostadis Roussos: You've just been… you've just arrived in Candlekeep. Right after the Underdark. One of the members of the Council was apparently murdered, and they've decided to make you…
Kostadis Roussos: The guys in charge, which, of course, should set off all sorts of alarm bells amongst.
Ben Pfaff: So Grygum is just relieved that he wasn't asked to become the new Keeper of tomes.
Kostadis Roussos: So he's, he's saying yes?
Ben Pfaff: Well, he's looking at the other three.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, Daz?
Thorin (Joe): I mean, they're clearly looking for a patsy.
Ben Pfaff: You have some sort of die roll you need to do?
Daz: There's also something to do with, like, they cut out the back part of my book in the library, and, like, I don't know if, like, or not my book, but the book I was looking at, and, like, I'm intrigued about, like, how that would happen, because that would be really, really hard, and I'm wondering if working on this would help us figure that out.
Kostadis Roussos: That sounds reasonable. That sounds like learning how the inner circle works might give you some.
Daz: Yeah, just getting some insights so we can map things out, you know?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, that's.
Daz: It caused chaos, to cause…
Daz: whatever got started by then cutting out a lot of the back. I mean, I'm a little chaotic neutral, so we'll see.
Kostadis Roussos: To me.
Ben Pfaff: it doesn't sound like being set up as a patsy's, it sounds like we can cast dispersions on whoever we feel like we would advantage us.
Thorin (Joe): Well, what does it take to remove us from power, once they give this to us?
Thorin (Joe): I mean, if we're in charge, we're in charge.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, you're not… no, no, you're not in charge, you're in charge of the investigation.
Thorin (Joe): inquisitive.
Ben Pfaff: into this matter?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Thorin (Joe): I see, okay.
Daz: Which, they could obviously set us up to fail, but, like, you know…
Thorin (Joe): Okay.
Daz: Well, who cares?
Kostadis Roussos: So, do you accept? They're all sort of staring at you, like…
Thorin (Joe): What's the remuneration for the.
Kostadis Roussos: I love it.
Daz: Great way to ask that question.
Ben Pfaff: it gives us reason.
Thorin (Joe): associated with this. We're talking to academics here, so I believe the proper word is stipend.
Daz: Oops.
Thorin (Joe): honorarium? Is there an honorarium for, taking on this, August, role and position?
Kostadis Roussos: There's actually studs. There's actually stun silence, right? I mean, it didn't occur to them, like, that that would be… they're like, we are.
Thorin (Joe): How about we each get a book of our choosing?
Kostadis Roussos: The Library of Candlekeep is not in the habit of giving out books.
Thorin (Joe): Well, we're not in the habit for investigating for free.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm certain a suitable remuneration could be arranged if you were to bring this to a successful conclusion that would provide you with the level of dignity and support that would be expected from such an adventure.
Ben Pfaff: Vague, but… but maybe we should take it.
Thorin (Joe): Well, I would assume that if we're only getting paid if we complete the job successfully, then the amount is commensurately increased because we're taking on some risk here.
Ben Pfaff: See, this gives us an excuse to poke our nose in everywhere.
Thorin (Joe): That's true.
Ben Pfaff: That's valuable.
Kostadis Roussos: This is the biggest library of all time. Who knows what's inside here?
Thorin (Joe): So I think what we say is that then we get carte blanche to actually investigate and go anywhere and read anything in the entire library.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, they say… they all kind of look at you, roll some insight checks, Or investig.
Thorin (Joe): I'm assuming there's stuff in there that they don't want us to read, and that's why I'm saying it.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I know.
Thorin (Joe): I got an 11.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, anybody else?
Ben Pfaff: 16.
Gabe: 19.
Daz: Why I got a 21.
Kostadis Roussos: 21?
Daz: Nope.
Kostadis Roussos: All right. So,
Kostadis Roussos: You know, as you're looking around,
Kostadis Roussos: As you're looking around, you definitely get the impression that
Kostadis Roussos: They're not really used to the idea of…
Kostadis Roussos: Strangers just poking around inside of the… inside of the library.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? That this is kind of a very weird sort of circumstances.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, wow.
Thorin (Joe): Are we supposed to investigate if we can't poke around?
Kostadis Roussos: I'm just saying, they're not used to it.
Ben Pfaff: We… yeah, we need an all-access library card.
Kostadis Roussos: One of them, L.A. introduces himself as L.A. Aivenmore.
Kostadis Roussos: Who was about… who said, initially, we must have the vote and restore leadership to Candlekeep.
Kostadis Roussos: Says, well, I, for one, think that the faster we can resolve this, the sooner we can have the leadership in place, the sooner we can get back into
Kostadis Roussos: Into business. And if, Bookwyrm preferred… the first reader
Kostadis Roussos: feels that this is a great opportunity, then I, who am I to judge?
Kostadis Roussos: Who am I to Josh?
Kostadis Roussos: All right. Do you want to look at… try to scope out any of the,
Kostadis Roussos: While you're… while this is… he… this is this very, so…
Kostadis Roussos: One of the… one of the other leaders goes, what experience do you have investigating crimes?
Daz: We have,
Daz: We had to invest quite a few crimes, even crimes that were committed against us while we were in the Underdark, in order to find our way out and actually solve multiple problems that involved multiple different groups in multiple villages. And we rid them of a scourge of fungus and other
Daz: beasts that were being summoned, and we had to do a lot of investigating. This is kind of our thing.
Ben Pfaff: I'm not used to being interviewed when somebody's asking me to do something.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, another one goes… And then the guy that you learn is… his name is Daral.
Kostadis Roussos: He's the guy who said, and who in awareness are these? He goes, looks at you and snarls, this is ridiculous, we don't know them from Alaundo. They look like a bunch of cell swords to me!
Daz: More victim.
Kostadis Roussos: What?
Daz: I said, alright then.
Kostadis Roussos: Right. I mean…
Thorin (Joe): My qualifications… my wife and I have been watching a lot of Poirot lately, so, you know
Thorin (Joe): I mean, we're gonna maybe watch some Colombo next, I'm just saying.
Kostadis Roussos: Fair, fair, fair, fair.
Ben Pfaff: Well, just one more thing.
Thorin (Joe): We are, we are students of the great Masters Poirot and Colombo.
Kostadis Roussos: what's her name? Dawnbringer observes that, you know, she… that… Dawnbringer feels at this point in time to confidently explain that, of course, you guys must be the greatest discoverers of all, because you found her… her imprisoned tomb after 2,000 years.
Thorin (Joe): Exactly, and I wasn't even around when that happened.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright. Thanks.
Ben Pfaff: And I have, have found a new philosophy of the universe.
Kostadis Roussos: So the conversation continues, at which point in time, Bookwyrm, looking increasingly irritated, taps her finger on the table and says, very well! Thorin, I think that was your name?
Thorin (Joe): Yes, that's me.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, well, if you're willing to all sign these confidentiality papers.
Ben Pfaff: I, I nod, I nod.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, we would be willing to offer you a copy of any book in the library.
Kostadis Roussos: And made as a… at the House of the Binder as a reward for your service.
Thorin (Joe): Alright, that seems like… a very valuable thing to get a copy of any book in the library.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes, so any book in the library, if you are to solve this murder mystery.
Gabe: Each of us, or just one book?
Kostadis Roussos: I.
Ben Pfaff: Do they have magic books?
Kostadis Roussos: Not magic books.
Ben Pfaff: Oh.
Daz: Okay.
Thorin (Joe): Oh, they must have magic books.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, but they can't make copies of magic books.
Thorin (Joe): Well, that's a them problem.
Ben Pfaff: Do you jump?
Kostadis Roussos: Right, Sure, she says, copy of any book in the library.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Ben Pfaff: Let's do it.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, so you're just gonna have to think about what a copy in the library is. All right.
Kostadis Roussos: Gabe, whenever you ask these questions, I'm always dread to say yes or no. There's some deep, nefari…
Gabe: I mean, what we'll do with this is TBD, but, you know…
Kostadis Roussos: I'm gonna say yes, because I'm curious to see which… I want to give you maximal flexibility to see what you'll come up with.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright,
Kostadis Roussos: As this is going on, the gate warden, Kalan Strongbranch, walks in, the guy who you met the other day, who with the, the whole scene where he wanted to put the,
Kostadis Roussos: The drow in prison.
Kostadis Roussos: That, he walks in, He's,
Kostadis Roussos: It's got his neatly trimmed gray-white beard and pleat-piercing blue eyes, and before he can even speak, Bookwyrm cuts him short. Thank you, Kalan, but given your own troubled relationship with the keeper of the tomes, and the need for an impartial investigation, this council has decided to relieve you from the case and appoint a body of independent investigators.
Ben Pfaff: He's going to be the first person we, question.
Kostadis Roussos: Please focus on securing our defenses and ensuring no other creature enters or leaves Candlekeep.
Kostadis Roussos: At the surprise… okay, roll an insight check.
Kostadis Roussos: Or investigation.
Daz: Either one, insight or investigation?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, insight or investigation.
Ben Pfaff: 21.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, wait.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, 21.
Daz: 24.
Kostadis Roussos: 24, alright, he looks pissed.
Kostadis Roussos: Then, recovers himself.
Kostadis Roussos: And then walks… and then walks away. Bows curtly, and turns the heel, and storms off.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, well, it's 7 o'clock here, so…
Kostadis Roussos: You're gonna, you're gonna have to, you're gonna have to drop off.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, unfortunately.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, do we need to send a note to whomever's your boss about the importance of certain times?
Ben Pfaff: You know, this is actually another club I'm in.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, oh!
Daz: Oh…
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, oh, oh, we're, we're the second best club.
Ben Pfaff: They have a once-a-month meeting at 7 o'clock on a Monday.
Ben Pfaff: I'm not…
Kostadis Roussos: Dude, we're just giving you a hard time.
Ben Pfaff: Look, look, when I joined… when I joined the club, they… the… the, bylaws they gave me said once a month at 7.30 on a Monday, and then after I joined it, I found out that they'd changed it.
Ben Pfaff: So…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, well, we'll…
Daz: Looks like somebody needs to run for president and change the time of the meeting, that's all I'm saying.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, I… I mean, or someone needs
Kostadis Roussos: Somebody needs to carefully read the bylaws and see how to change it back without becoming a president.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, dude.
Kostadis Roussos: I think we have four people who would gladly read those bylaws and propose.
Ben Pfaff: These people are awful for process, so I want no part of it.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: See you next time. All right.
Daz: Take care, man, we'll see you.
Kostadis Roussos: So at this point in time, Bookwyrm explains that the
Kostadis Roussos: The keeper of the tomes was a person named Janussi.
Kostadis Roussos: And, she says, she tells you
Kostadis Roussos: to, and she explains that Fembris, the little… the guy, is going to be your…
Kostadis Roussos: adjutant. His job is to follow you around, and ask you questions, and…
Kostadis Roussos: you know, keep you… if you need anything, he's your guy. He's like, Anything you want!
Kostadis Roussos: I'm your guy.
Kostadis Roussos: Pauses. I mean, anything legal and, you know, like, how do I get here where the bathrooms are, where's a particular room?
Daz: Not kind of anything?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, that kind of… he notices, like, looking at the drow, and the dragonborn, and Thorin, and the half-orc, he suddenly realizes that the word anything in his definition of anything can be widely divergent.
Daz: May not be the same.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Daz: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: So Bookwyrm, says, marches you,
Kostadis Roussos: Marches you towards the,
Kostadis Roussos: the chamber, she goes, I think it's important that you know that yesterday morning, Janussi asked the gate warden to tend his resignation. The keeper was concerned that Kalan was losing his mental faculties and becoming negligent in his work.
Kostadis Roussos: You… if you're gonna… you don't ask questions, I will continue, so…
Daz: What type of work was he negligent in?
Kostadis Roussos: Aye.
Daz: job, or was there just one thing he was doing that.
Kostadis Roussos: I don't want to prejudice your investigation, I'm sure if you examine…
Daz: investigating, part of investigating is get input from everybody that we talk to, and if you don't, if you don't want to tell, like, then we.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, I don't want to prejudice! I'm sure if you examine the evidence… Okay.
Thorin (Joe): But your testimony is evidence.
Kostadis Roussos: Mmm…
Thorin (Joe): Maybe you are evidence, and we should examine you.
Kostadis Roussos: I've… I've… she pauses and goes, everyone should be examined.
Kostadis Roussos: But I can assure you, I had nothing to do with it.
Daz: Okay.
Thorin (Joe): Where, where, where were you?
Daz: Everybody that did it says.
Thorin (Joe): Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: It's only a short walk from the… while you guys are talking, you arrive up a stair… spiraling staircase that rings the tower, pasting a reception chamber on one floor, a shrine of Oghma on a second, a large apartment on a third.
Kostadis Roussos: The door of which is ajar.
Kostadis Roussos: Before arriving at the door of Janussi's Chambers.
Kostadis Roussos: On the way, you pass a gray cat sleeping in the middle of the stairs. The feline remains motionless as you approach, but her yellow eyes open, daring anyone to disturb her. Bookwyrm steps gingerly around here.
Kostadis Roussos: So…
Thorin (Joe): I want to ask Bookwyrm about the cat. What… why is every… why did he step around the cat?
Kostadis Roussos: He pauses and says, Nobody knows, but there's a theory about the cat.
Thorin (Joe): What's the theory? Does a cat murder people?
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, no, no, no, the concern is the cat is some kind of power that lives here.
Kostadis Roussos: Nobody has been able to conclusively prove that it is, and nobody has been able to prove that it conclusively is not. And so, the cat stays where the cat wishes.
Daz: That's kind of how cats always are, I think.
Thorin (Joe): I mean, yeah, they don't listen anymore.
Kostadis Roussos: bang.
Kostadis Roussos: Actually, Fembris goes… turns to you and goes, oh my god, these avowed? Like, that's what cats do. Like, cats just sit wherever they want, and, like, these guys have turned it into an intergalact… interstellar, interspatial, interdimensional horror.
Thorin (Joe): I mean, the cat could be some sort of familiar for somebody, or some sort of, you know, shapeshifter. We are, you know…
Thorin (Joe): have to be open to every idea here. Are you saying that that's not the case?
Kostadis Roussos: I'm just saying, they always… That's what they're always saying, it's just a cat.
Gabe: Is it?
Kostadis Roussos: Now he's… now he… you deliver that with such… Such emphasis!
Kostadis Roussos: That is going.
Kostadis Roussos: You know, if Booker was scared of the cat, maybe I should be scared of the cat.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: You arrive at the crime scene. A solemn-faced watcher named Tadric guards the door to the chambers, and the bookworm shows up, and he defers to her immediately.
Kostadis Roussos: bookform informs the Tadric that Kalan has been relieved from the investigation, and asked to focus intentions elsewhere.
Kostadis Roussos: And she then says, these four will be taking over.
Kostadis Roussos: And then she turns, she goes, and I must deal with other business. You are to report back to me as soon as you are done, and remove nothing from the room.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so there's Tadric.
Kostadis Roussos: He's a short, human male, 23 years old, with a dark brown haircut shaped like an upside-down bowl.
Daz: Upside down. Oh.
Kostadis Roussos: you know, like…
Thorin (Joe): The traditional bowl cut. Or wait, no, does it actually… is it right side up?
Kostadis Roussos: Upside down, so it's down like that, right?
Thorin (Joe): Yeah, okay.
Daz: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: It's like, you know…
Thorin (Joe): His mom put a bowl on his head and then cut around the.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, exactly.
Gabe: It's a walker.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, sorry, I, I…
Kostadis Roussos: Or is it an upside… yeah, upside-down bowl. I was just thinking upside-down bowl, but I was thinking the bowl upside-down.
Thorin (Joe): I know, you assumed that the ball went on… I mean, you know, I get where you came from.
Kostadis Roussos: Like, I got confused. I'm like, an upside-down bowl cut. So the bowl cut is like this, and then I'm like, oh no, that's the upside down…
Thorin (Joe): Alright, what's this dude's role?
Thorin (Joe): What's his name?
Kostadis Roussos: Tadric.
Thorin (Joe): Tadric, I was thinking Tadric.
Kostadis Roussos: So, let me just tell you, he, he was… you… what was your question again? Sorry.
Kostadis Roussos: Joe.
Thorin (Joe): I said, what's his role? What's his job?
Thorin (Joe): Why is he here?
Thorin (Joe): Contaminating our own crime scene.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, he goes, I arrived at the crime scene with the gate warden around 8 this morning, after speaking briefly with A'lai, that's the guy who…
Kostadis Roussos: was very excited about you guys solving this murder mystery as quickly as possible, because, you know, he felt that some… that, you know, somebody had to be voted into, you know, wants the government of Candlekeep to start functioning again, get past the whole murder thing.
Kostadis Roussos: and Miss Hollypocket, and making a brief inspection of the scene, but the gate warden left to oversee the deployment of additional watchers during a newly declared state of emergency.
Thorin (Joe): Was the state of the emergency due to the murder?
Kostadis Roussos: Y-yes.
Thorin (Joe): Okay, there might be another emergency we're not aware of, I'm just asking.
Kostadis Roussos: Right. I mean, you know, one thing that pops into your head is you can ask about, you know, who else came by, when.
Thorin (Joe): Yeah, I'm wondering, like, what is the timeline? Who found them? Has anybody actually left the crime scene since they were found? Like, what is the timeline here that we want to establish?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, he goes… he turns to you and says, wow, that's a… that's a really good question. Janussi was found dead by great reader A'lai Aivenmore and the servant, Miss Hollypocket, around 7.30 in the morning, and the two of them raised the alarm.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Thorin (Joe): Did they discover… did they discover him together, or did somebody discover him first? Do we know?
Kostadis Roussos: I arrived at the crime scene with the gate warden around 8 AM, so for all I know, yes, they did.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Thorin (Joe): So we're gonna have to interview them.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. Then a little bit later, Kazryn Nyantani arrived distraught and weeply, shortly after 8 AM, wanting to see the body of Janussi.
Kostadis Roussos: Which she did, but only from the doorway.
Kostadis Roussos: Then, Fheminor Scrivenbark stern up at 8.30, appearing shocked. She wanted to inspect the chamber, but it was… rules had already been set, nobody was allowed to go in.
Kostadis Roussos: Then Bookward showed up at 9 from the baths, having been alerted to the situation. As Acting Head of Candlekeep, she was allowed to enter the chamber, but took a brief only look at the scene before confirming the garden warden's order not to admit anyone.
Kostadis Roussos: And the gate warden returned at 11 to make a full investigation. He seemed careful not to sully the crime scene in any way before he left to make his report to the Council of Great Readers.
Kostadis Roussos: He looks at you.
Kostadis Roussos: Where is… what happened with the gate warden?
Kostadis Roussos: He's the guy that got fired so that you can have the job.
Thorin (Joe): Yeah, I mean, like, I don't know, they just asked us to step in, and we don't have any.
Daz: We're, we're, we're just… we're trying to figure out what happened.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. Gatewarden's a great guy, you know, he's a really honest, he's a really stand-up guy. I don't know why they wouldn't want to have him do this investigation.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, well, well, he went inside and looked around and then left. He didn't tell me of any… that… he didn't share with me anything that he figured out.
Thorin (Joe): Did it look like he discovered something?
Kostadis Roussos: Tedrick thinks about it for a second.
Kostadis Roussos: He definitely looked more determined after he walked out.
Kostadis Roussos: So there… I don't know, though, look, I haven't looked inside. I'm not, you know, I'm… I've been standing outside and pausing and goes, I don't really like murder, blood scenes, kind of gross.
Gabe: Did he touch anything whatsoever?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, he seemed careful not to sully the crime scene.
Gabe: Granted, but did you touch anything whatsoever?
Kostadis Roussos: Not that I noticed.
Gabe: Were you watching carefully?
Kostadis Roussos: No, my job was to make sure nobody came in, not so much to look inside.
Gabe: So you don't.
Kostadis Roussos: No.
Kostadis Roussos: I don't know, I, I, you know, that was… my job was, you know, my job was out here, crowd control.
Kostadis Roussos: Make sure only the right people come in and out. You know, we don't want everybody coming in and out, and in and out, and in and out, and in and out.
Kostadis Roussos: You know, like, Bookwyrm, and the Gatewarden, and… Janussi, and Kazryn, and… I don't think I did a good job. Did I do a good job?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, finally you're… he opens the door, and you're ready to enter the keeper's quarters. You enter a spacious, circular chamber, ringed by a dozen lancet windows that fill the room with natural light, which is made hazy by a thin.
Kostadis Roussos: Bug of tobacco.
Kostadis Roussos: Lying on the ground near the foot of the chamber's elegant mahogany desk in the center of the room is the corpse of a human male around 70 years old.
Kostadis Roussos: His vacant eyes fixed on the ceiling, his splendid, flowing white robes are extremely bloodied around the torso, while a closer look reveals that his rib cage has been caved in and there is a gaping hollow in the chest.
Kostadis Roussos: The wrist of the chamber is in some disorder. A chair has been toppled over near the desk. The desk itself is neatly arranged, with a single book lying open in the center, next to a pile of books on the left.
Kostadis Roussos: and a stack of notes on the right. But the extinguished candles of the candelabra have burned down to their stub, leaving a waxy mess spilled below them, and an ink pot has been filled.
Kostadis Roussos: On either side of the room, on the other side of the room, and to the desk, a marble statue and its pedestal lie on the ground. Blue gemstones appear to have been scattered on the stone floor in front of the safe, along with several empty pouches. A wooden set of stairs leads up to the second floor.
Thorin (Joe): So it looks like a robbery, like somebody raided the safe, and what they were looking for is more valuable than blue gemstones?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, after they enter the chamber… Fembris, at this point in time, takes one look at the body, runs to one of the windows, flings it open, and starts vomiting outside of the tower.
Daz: Oh, wow.
Thorin (Joe): But who does that?
Kostadis Roussos: Fembris, Fembris, your, your, your assistant.
Thorin (Joe): Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: you know.
Kostadis Roussos: A gush of wind flows in. Fortunately, his vomit does not also flow in. Nothing disturbs the evidence. He decides, I… I need to… he needs to be…
Kostadis Roussos: To go outside. Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So, there's a bunch of stuff you can investigate. Here, I'll just drop it into the chat so you can…
Kostadis Roussos: Decide what you want to look in what order.
Thorin (Joe): I feel like we need to, like, include where you have the list of suspects, and then where they were and everything, right?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I'll get that list for you guys.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, I will… if you ever want to ask who was so…
Thorin (Joe): There's just a lot of characters, and I'm not quite sure who's.
Kostadis Roussos: Don't worry about the characters right now. Now you're doing the investigation of the crime scene. When it comes to… you will get a chance to meet with the characters, so focus… focus on the… focus on the room for the moment. Does that make sense?
Thorin (Joe): Yeah.
Daz: Yeah.
Thorin (Joe): So what is… is there…
Thorin (Joe): a source for the tobacco that we can see, because I would have expected… like, what time is it now?
Kostadis Roussos: It's after 11, because, that's…
Thorin (Joe): What happened between 7.30 and 11, where the tobacco smoke is still here?
Kostadis Roussos: That I do not know.
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on. I have to be honest with you guys. The Montreal Canadiens are playing the Buffalo Sabres in Game 7, and so I'm… my phone is being buzzed by my friends, so I had to check what happened.
Kostadis Roussos: I've got two sets of friends, ones who are hoping for Buffalo, and another who are hoping for Montreal, so I don't know… whenever I get a, I don't know whether it's a, haha, good news.
Kostadis Roussos: But Grygum tentatively agrees with the claim. Okay.
Thorin (Joe): I lean over and feel for a pulse.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so… do you, alright.
Thorin (Joe): Alright, what's the book that's open in the center on the table?
Daz: Yeah, we gotta check that out. And then also, can we look inside those bags and tell what might have been in the bags, the empty ones?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so let's start with the desk, shall we?
Daz: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Piled on the left, on different… among the title… okay, so no investigation is required to search the desk, which are several books piled up on the left… left on discrete topics. Among the titles are…
Kostadis Roussos: I will just, instead of trying to pronounce them…
Kostadis Roussos: Why do you do this to me?
Kostadis Roussos: Sorry, I clicked the button, and it, like, completely
Kostadis Roussos: Took me to the wrong place. Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, in the middle of the desk is a spell book entitled The Discoveries.
Kostadis Roussos: And behind the book is a seven-armed bronze candelabra, its candles all burned to the stub.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So, let me just put that down.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, hold on, I need to, do something. This is actually starting to get on my nerves.
Kostadis Roussos: I hope you, sorry.
Thorin (Joe): What page is the book open to?
Kostadis Roussos: Amazing.
Thorin (Joe): Spell.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright,
Kostadis Roussos: Let's see where it says, straight through.
Kostadis Roussos: Word.
Kostadis Roussos: Skilled.
Kostadis Roussos: Let's go… This is…
Daz: And I want to check the notes, too. It said there was a pile of notes on the side. Can we… can we infer, like, what he was trying to figure out from the book, or was it just…
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, no, absolutely.
Daz: Academic stuff, like, what was going on?
Kostadis Roussos: Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, fine. Finally got to the,
Kostadis Roussos: There's something that won't keep clicking away at me. Alright, so you're looking at the desk.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, to the right of the discoveries lies a single sheath leaf of papyrus with the book's title.
Kostadis Roussos: Written in common, which… with notes written in Celestial. The notes are musing on the unfamiliar spells and the discoveries and how they might be cast.
Kostadis Roussos: So, it looks like just generic scientific research by some… by an academic.
Kostadis Roussos: You also notice a quill on the floor by the desk.
Kostadis Roussos: Its nib covered in midnight blue ink.
Kostadis Roussos: Also on the floor by the desk is a wicker basket with a single discarded linen ink carry in it. The inside of the linen carrier is slightly damp, and was clearly the vessel…
Kostadis Roussos: of the Midnight Blue Ink.
Thorin (Joe): Well, it said that there was ink spilled
Thorin (Joe): Ink pot had been spilled. Is that the ink pot that was spilled?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Thorin (Joe): Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Finally, at the back of the desk, on the right, is a large pile of… here, I'm just gonna cut and paste this so you have this.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Finally, at the back of the desk, on the right, is a large pile of notes with quartz weight on top of them.
Kostadis Roussos: Anybody want to look through them?
Daz: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Anyone investigating those notes sees on top of the pile more annotations than Celestial, using the same midnight blue ink on a book called The Golden Ass, while underneath there are more notes on the discoveries in a different purple ink… purplish ink, now dry.
Kostadis Roussos: The…
Daz: I tell them about the inks?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, it's clearly that he was used to be… the blue ink was the one that he was using most recently.
Daz: Click that.
Kostadis Roussos: And so that it's… it is interesting that, you know, like, before that, he was using purple ink, and not just before that, weeks ago, before that a day or so ago.
Gabe: So, sorry, you said he was, so…
Kostadis Roussos: Sorry, Janussi, I don't remember her gender.
Kostadis Roussos: Hey, Jen.
Kostadis Roussos: The, the, the dead, the victim, the murdered victim.
Gabe: Okay, but, so the handwriting looks the same, it's just purple, then blue.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, right, and it's, it's, you know, role in Insight, Chuck.
Gabe: I got a 24.
Daz: 16…
Thorin (Joe): I got a 6.
Gabe: So… 24 is the max so far. Gergen might roll in a week.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so as you're, you know.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so the key deductions here, one of the things you're noticing is that
Kostadis Roussos: Well, first of all, he's got… you've got a notes about a book called The Golden Ass, but you probably noticed that I haven't mentioned The Golden Ass here.
Daz: No.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: You also… That, the gold… the golden ass was purple.
Kostadis Roussos: Sorry, the discovery's in a different purple ink, whereas the new notes were in blue.
Kostadis Roussos: So somehow… He switched inks between… between these two.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: You looked at the candle.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: And you notice that the candles were left to burn out by themselves.
Daz: But the candles are burnt out, but there's tobacco smoke in the room?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I don't know why they said that. I'm trying… it may just be…
Thorin (Joe): Alright, so let's make a note. We need to… well, let's ask the person who was outside who showed up around 8, whether the candles were actually still burning or whether they were burned out at that point.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, they had been burnt out.
Thorin (Joe): Okay.
Thorin (Joe): So…
Gabe: Just reopen.
Thorin (Joe): That tells me that it had been some time since… since he was murdered, because there was enough time for the candle to burn out. Right. Unless they were down in ovens, but I'm assuming that…
Kostadis Roussos: she, the, the Tadric says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, he would never have such… that… that would… that would…
Kostadis Roussos: Miss Hollypocket would never allow him to spend the night with candles that would fall apart like that.
Kostadis Roussos: That would be…
Thorin (Joe): So likely, he was murdered quite some time ago.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Gabe: So, sorry, just real quick, before we leave the topic of the notes, can we glance over the purple notes upon the golden ass to get a sense for what that's about? Like, the nature of the notes?
Gabe: Oh, no, the blue… sorry, blue notes on the Purple S.
Gabe: Blue notes from the colderness, too many…
Daz: Blue ink on the… where you are.
Kostadis Roussos: They… there's… they're just notes. There's nothing special about them.
Gabe: Well, yeah, yeah, I know that, but do they give us a sense for what the book is about?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, what is the book about?
Kostadis Roussos: Now I have to go figure out what that vocal is.
Gabe: It's just a…
Kostadis Roussos: I will find… I will find out what that book is. It's somewhere here, but I… let me just…
Thorin (Joe): It's about mysterious tobacco smoke that nobody can explain.
Gabe: There you go.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, no, no, I will find it. Give me a second.
Gabe: I mean, given the title, it could be romance, it could be something about animals, like…
Kostadis Roussos: I already did the vampire with romance fiction, didn't I?
Gabe: That's right.
Kostadis Roussos: Which made Gabe very awkward that time.
Gabe: Hmm…
Kostadis Roussos: Let's see…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, let's… I will get you the answer to that, but,
Kostadis Roussos: The… as you're looking around, you notice that the chair Of the desk is toppled.
Kostadis Roussos: And the… don't forget, the quill was also dropped.
Thorin (Joe): So there's some sort of struggle.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, the next thing to do would be the body, I presume.
Gabe: Wow, Joe already checked that.
Thorin (Joe): Yeah, I think they're dead.
Kostadis Roussos: Did you investigate it, or did you just go.
Gabe: Yes!
Thorin (Joe): Of course!
Kostadis Roussos: No, I don't know, like, I mean, this is Thorin. Thorin might have just did that and said, I'm done.
Thorin (Joe): I mean, so, okay, so how did they appear to die?
Thorin (Joe): I'm gonna go back and read.
Gabe: Well, yeah, what's with the cap? Like, are they missing organs or something? Like, what's going on with the body?
Daz: your chest up.
Thorin (Joe): Major's been caved in, gaping hollow.
Thorin (Joe): Are we missing any organs?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, roll up again.
Thorin (Joe): Was this cut neatly with a sharp scalpel-like thing, or was it, like, torn out with somebody's bare hands?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so roll a medicine… Check.
Kostadis Roussos: And one…
Gabe: investigation. All right.
Kostadis Roussos: One at a time.
Thorin (Joe): It almost… it almost hit 19, and then it just, like, tipped over, and I know that it decided that it was a 1 the minute I pressed the button, but I'm really pissed off that it teased me.
Kostadis Roussos: All right. Zalthir, I presume you're also looking at the body. What did you roll for medicine?
Gabe: 17.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, of course, you'd be ruled. Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: You reveal that the keeper's heart is missing, but no other organs.
Gabe: wait, this is an Indiana Jones situation, like…
Kostadis Roussos: Well, I mean, hold on.
Kostadis Roussos: The keeper's rib cage was smashed by what appears to be an axe, or similar, using several precise blows, all very close to one another.
Kostadis Roussos: And you also notice that while the keeper of the tome's vestments are covered in blood and…
Kostadis Roussos: Cruds. The mest is surprisingly localized around the wound.
Kostadis Roussos: As someone who has killed more than his fair share of people, you're very… it's like he… you would have expected spurting jets of blood to have covered not only more of his robes, but also more of the room.
Gabe: Alright.
Thorin (Joe): The question, was he dead before his heart was hacked out?
Kostadis Roussos: And as…
Thorin (Joe): Like I said, I've been watching a lot of…
Gabe: Right, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: And so, is there any blue…
Thorin (Joe): blood splatter around? Is it directional? Can we tell the velocity?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, just…
Thorin (Joe): You get access to lasers.
Kostadis Roussos: No, I mean, no, but because Grygum is a cleric, he immediately realizes what's going on, was Zalthir is speculating about the deaths. He goes, oh!
Kostadis Roussos: you can't raise the dead of somebody if the vital organs are not there.
Gabe: I was gonna ask about that, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: So, somebody decided to steal his heart to make Raise Dead impossible.
Daz: I see.
Thorin (Joe): Is there any way that we can commune with the dead, even though they don't have all their parts?
Thorin (Joe): I mean, we don't need the heart, we just need the brain to be able to talk to him, you know.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, you can try that. So he goes, yes, we did try to speak with the dead, but apparently the dead were not speaking.
Gabe: Huh?
Daz: How can that happen?
Kostadis Roussos: So…
Thorin (Joe): Wait, who tried when?
Thorin (Joe): The, like, City Watch guy or whatever that got fired, did he try and, like, speak with the dead?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Thorin (Joe): Gotta interview that dude.
Gabe: Hmm.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so here's something… something that Grygum also knows.
Kostadis Roussos: Speak with Dead grants a semblance of life and intelligence to a corpse of your choice within range, allowing it to answer the questions you pose. The corpse must still have a mouth and can't be undead. The spell fails if the corpse is the target of the spell within the last 10 days.
Gabe: Oh, so someone cast it already.
Kostadis Roussos: Perhaps.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, Tadric doesn't know, Fembris is outside puking.
Thorin (Joe): So if we wait 10 days, then we can cast it again?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Thorin (Joe): Corpse will be a little stinky by then.
Thorin (Joe): Is there any ice around?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, we will stop here.
Thorin (Joe): Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Are you enjoying this murder mystery?
Thorin (Joe): I mean, yeah, I feel like this could take us, like, 12 sessions, but, you know, it's fun.
Daz: I definitely…
Thorin (Joe): We definitely need the little clue thing where we can check off who was in the, you know, the library.
Kostadis Roussos: I will… I will give you these score sheets so that you can… so you… so you can keep track at home.
Thorin (Joe): Alright, have a good night. Thanks, Kostadis.
Daz: Yeah, y'all have. Take care.